A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.A closed mouth gathers no foot.A committee is a cul-de-sac down which ideas are lured and then quietly strangled. (COCKS)
A coward dies a thousand deaths, a brave man dies but once.A corporation is an ingenius device for obtaining individual profit without individual responsibility.
A cynic is a man who knows the price of everything but the value of nothing. (WILDE)A day without orange juice is like a day without sunshine. (T.V.-ADVER)
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A friend in need is a friend indeed (or a ‘pest indeed’).
A friend to all is a friend to none.
A good lawyer makes a bad neighbor.
A house divided against itself cannot stand.
A job worth doing, is worth doing well.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. (LAO-TZU)
A leader is a dealer in hope. (NAPOLEON)
A liberal is a man who is willing to spend someone else’s money.
A lie, told often enough, becomes the truth.
A little knowledge is a dangerous thing.
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine. (BIBLE)
A man cannot serve two masters. (BIBLE)
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man that don’t lie ain’t got nuthin’ to say.
A man who represents himself in court has a fool for a client.
A man’s got to know his limitations.
A man’s gotta do what a man’s gotta do.
A man’s home is his castle.
A minute on the lips, a lifetime in the heart.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A penny for your thoughts.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A picture’s worth a thousand words.
A prophet is never accepted in his own country. (BIBLE)
A radical is a man with both feet firmly planted in the air.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose, by any other name, would smell as sweet.
A rose, is a rose, is a rose.
A soft word turneth away wroth. (BIBLE)
A solid house for shifting sands, a solid law for shifty lawyers. (GARTH)
A spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down. (HOLLYWD)
A stitch in time, saves nine.
A stranger’s just a friend you’ve never met.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
A watched pot never boils.
A wise head makes a closed mouth.
A woman is like a teabag. Only in hot water do you realize how strong she is. (E. ROOSEVELT) (REAGAN)
A woman’s place is in the home.
A woman’s work is never done.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
A workman is worthy of his hire.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Actions speak louder than words.
Age before beauty.
Age is strictly a case of mind over matter....if you don’t mind, it doesn’t matter. (BENNY)
All roads lead to Rome.
All sins are attempts to fill voids. (WEIL)
All that glitters is not gold.
All the world’s a stage.
All things come to he who waits.
All things in moderation.
All things work together for good. (BIBLE)
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All’s fair in love and war.
All’s well that ends well (or ‘ends in a well’).
Always get a second opinion.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An army marches on it’s stomach.
An elephant never forgets.
An inch is as good as a mile.
An injury is sooner forgotten than an insult.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Another day, another dollar.
Any man who hates children and dogs can’t be all bad. (ROSTEN/FIELDS)
Any port in a storm.
Ape must not kill ape. (HOLLYWOOD)
April showers bring May flowers.
‘Architecture’ is the art of how to waste space.
Art and Science are two sides of the same coin. (GARTH)
As above, so below.
As sure as death and taxes.
As the teeth go, so goes the body. (HOLLYWD)
Ashes to ashes, dust to dust. (BIBLE)
Ask, and ye shall receive. (BIBLE)
Ask me no questions, I’ll tell you no lies.
Ask not, what your country can do for you,... ask what you can do for your country. (KENNEDY)
Back to the old drawing board.
Be careful what you wish for; you might get it.
Be careful who you step on while climbing the ladder of success; you’re liable to meet them on the way down.
Be sure your sins will find you out. (BIBLE)
Be thankful for what you’ve got.
Be there,…or be square.
Beauty and brains don’t mix.
Beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. (or 'Beer Holder')
Beauty is only skin deep.
Bee to the blossom, moth to the flame, each to his passion, what’s in a name? (H.H.JACKSON)
Being there is half the fun.
Beggars can’t be choosers.
Better late than never.
Better Red than dead. (POLIT.)
Better safe than sorry.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don’t know.
Better to be healthy than wealthy.
Beware of Greeks bearing gifts. (HIST.)
Big brother is watching. (LITER.)
Birds of a feather flock together.
Black is beautiful.
Blondes have more fun. (T.V.-ADVER.)
Blood’s thicker than water.
Boys will be boys.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Broad is the path, but narrow is the way. (BIBLE)
Build a better mousetrap and the world will beat  a path to your doorstep.
Burn me once, shame on you; burn me twice, shame on me.
Business is business.
By the needles which prick my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.
Candy is dandy, but liquor is quicker.
Cats always land on their feet.
Chance favors the prepared mind. (HOLLYWD)
Change is good for the soul.
Character is what a man is in the dark. (MOODY)
Charity begins at home.
Cheaters never prosper.
Children should be seen and not heard.
Christmas comes but once a year.
Cleanliness is next to Godliness.
Close,…but no cigar.
Clothes make the man.
Cold hands- warm heart.
Comedy is not pretty. (MARTIN )
Common sense is not so common. (VOLTAIRE)
Confession is good for the soul.
Count your blessings.
Cross that bridge when you come to it.
Curiousity killed the cat (but satisfaction brought him back).
Damn the torpedoes! Full speed ahead!
Dead men tell no tales.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.
Diamonds are a girl’s best friend.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Divide and conquer.
Do not judge another until you’ ve walked for two moons in his moccasins.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Do unto others, but do it first.
Don’t ask of others what you yourself can do.
Don’t beat a dead horse.
Don’t believe everything you hear.
Don’t bet the rent on it.
Don’t bite off more than you can chew.
Don’t bite the hand that feeds you.
Don’t borrow trouble.
Don’t cast caution to the winds.
Don’t change horses in midstream.
Don’t confuse me with the facts.
Don’t count your chickens before they’re hatched.
Don’t cry over spilt milk.
Don’t cut off your nose to spite your face.
Don’t do the crime if you can’t do the time.
Don’t eat yellow snow. (N.A.F.T.)
Don’t feed the bears.
Don’t forget your raincoat (i.e. condom)
Don’t get caught with your pants down.
Don’t give up the ship.
Don’t go against the grain.
Don’t go off half cocked.
Don’t go off the deep end.
Don’t grab the tiger by the tail.
Don’t kick a man when he’s down.
Don’t kill the goose that lays the golden egg.
Don’t kill the messenger.
Don’t knock it ‘til you’ve tried it.
Don’t let the cat out of the bag.
Don’t live in a fool’s paradise.
Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don’t look back. Somethin’ might be gainin’ on ya. (PAIGE)
Don’t make a federal case out of it.
Don’t make a mountain out of a molehill.
Don’t make promises you can’t keep.
Don’t nit pick.
Don’t pick green fruit.
Don’t pour salt on the wound.
Don’t put all your eggs in one basket.
Don’t put the cart before the horse.
Don’t quit your day job.
Don’t ride the fence.
Don’t rob Peter to pay Paul.
Don’t rub people the wrong way.
Don’t send a boy to do a man’s job.
Don’t shoot ‘til you see the whites of their eyes. (HIST.)
Don’t spit into the wind.
Don’t split hairs.
Don’t start something you can’t finish.
Don’t sweat the small stuff.
Don’t take any wooden nickels.
Don’t take it lying down.
Don’t throw out the baby with the bathwater.
Don’t throw stones in the well you drink from.
Don’t toot your own horn.
Don’t tread on me. (HIST.)
Don’t trust anyone over thirty. (POLIT)
Don’t worry about bitin’ off more than you can chew. Your mouth is probably a whole lot bigger than you think.
Don’t yell fire in a crowded theatre.
Dreams die hard.
Drowning men catch at straws.
Dumb breeds dumb.
Dying is easy; comedy,…that’s hard. (GWYNN)
Early to bed and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy and wise. (FRANKLIN)
Earth has no sorrow that heaven cannot heal. (MOORE)
Easy come, easy go.
Easy does it.
England and America are two countries seperated by the same language. (SHAW)
Et tu Brutus? (HIST.)
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every dog has his day.
Every little bit helps.
Every man has his price.
Every time a bell rings, an angel gets his wings. (Attaboy Clarence!) (HOLLYWD)
Everybody likes a kidder, but nobody lends him money. (MILLER)
Everybody talks about the weather, but no one does anything about it.
Everybody wants ta get into da act! (DURANTE)
Everybody’s got a racket.
Everyone loves a clown.
Everything is funny as long as it’s happening to somebody else. (ROGERS)
Evil takes many forms.
Excuses are like bellybuttons (or some other body part), everybody’s got one. (N.A.F.T.)
Exemptions are the rule.
Expect a miracle everyday.
Expect the unexpected.
Experience is the best teacher.
Failure is no crime, too low an aim is.
Faint heart never won fair maiden.
Fair is fair.
Fake it ‘til you make it.
Fame is fleeting.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Fashions may come and fashions may go, but good manners never go out of style.
Fast cars, faster women.
Fate is the hunter.
Father knows best. (T.V.)
Fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. (BIBLE)
Feed a cold-starve a fever. (Not true, by the way)
F.I.G.M.O.  ( Author’s note: It’s an armed services thing ).
Finders keepers, losers weepers.
First come, first served.
First impressions are the strongest.
First things first.
Fish and guests. Both stink in three days.(LYLY)
Follow the drinking gourd. (HIST.)
Follow the money.
Follow your dreams.
Follow your heart.
Follow the yellow brick road. (HOLLYWD)
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread. (BIBLE)
Force begets force.
Force without judgement falls of it’s own weight. (HORACE)
Forgive your enemies - but don’t forget their names.
Form follows function.
Fortune favors the brave.
Frailty, thy name is woman.(SHAKESPEAR)
Friends don’t let friends drive drunk (T.V.-ADVER.-SLOGAN)
From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.(MARX)
Garbage in – garbage out.
Gas, grass or ass – nobody rides for free. (BUMPER) (N.A.F.T.)
Get a life.
Get real.
Get the lead out.
Get thee behind me Satan. (BIBLE)
Get with the program.
Get your kicks on route 66. (T.V.)
Getting there is half the fun.
Gimme that old-time religion.
Girlfriends bring fun. Wives bring happiness.
Give a little, get a little.
Give a man a fish, and you feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.
Give ‘em an inch, and they’ll take a mile.
Give the devil his due.
Go ahead,…make my day. (H. CALLAHAN) (HOLLYWD)
Go west young man. (GREELEY)
Go where the money is.
God created mankind. Smith and Wesson made them equal. (BUMPER)
God, guts and guns. (BUMPER.)
God heals, and the doctor takes the fee.(FRANKLIN)
God is on the side of those with the heaviest artillery.
God watches over BABIES and DRUNKS.
Gone, but not forgotten.
Good enough for government work.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Good judgement comes from experience, and a lot of that comes from bad judgement.
Good things come in small packages.
Good things, when short, are twice as good. (GRACIAN)
Gravity sucks.
Happiness walks on busy feet.
Hard work never hurt nobody.
Haste makes waste.
Have a nice day. (SOC-PSYCH)
He is armed without who is innocent within. (POPE)
He who calls the tune, pays the piper.
He who dies with the most toys wins. (BUMPER)
He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who hesitates is probably right.
He who is to be a good ruler, must first have been ruled. (ARISTOTLE)
He who laughs last, laughs best.
He who lives by the sword, dies by the sword.
He who smelt it, dealt it. (N.A.F.T.)
Hearts are not judged by how much we love, but by how much we are loved by others. (OZ) (HOLLYWD)
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
He’s not (or “She’s not”) the only fish in the sea.
Hindsight is 20/20.
History repeats itself.
Hit ‘em low, and hit ‘em hard.
Home is where the heart is.
Home sweet home.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hope is the parent of faith.
Hope springs eternal.
How long a minute is depends on which side of the bathroom door you’re on.
How the mighty have fallen.
I am Spartacus! (HOLLYWD)
I calls ‘em as I see’s ‘em.
I came, I saw, I conquered.(JULIUS CAESAR)
I have not yet begun to fight. (J.P. JONES)
I like Ike. (POLIT.)
I owe, I owe, so off to work I go. (BUMPER)
I shall return. (MacArthur)
I slept, and dreamed that life was Beauty. I awoke, and found that life was Duty. (HOOPER)
I would rather be RIGHT than president. (CLAY)
Idle hands are the devil’s tools.
Idle minds are the devil’s workshop.
If at first you don’t succeed, …the hell with it. (BUMPER)
If at first you don’t succeed,…try, try again.
If attacked by a bear – play dead.
If everything is coming your way, you’re in the wrong lane.
If God be for us, who can be against us?
If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.
If it bleeds, it leads.
If it feels good, do it. (N.A.F.T.)
If it isn’t taxed, it’s regulated. If it isn’t regulated, it’s about to be.
If it jams, force it. If it breaks, it needed replacing anyway.
If it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If it walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck,…it’s a duck.
If it’s too loud, you’re too old.
If looks could kill…
If man were meant to fly, he’d have wings.
If money goes before, all ways lie open.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If this van’s a-rockin’, don’t come a-knockin’.(BUMPER)(N.A.F.T.)
If thou wouldst keep money, save money. If thou wouldst reap money, sow money.
If wishes were fishes, beggars would ride.
If you can pinch an inch, you’re fat.
If you can’t beat ‘em, join ‘em.
If you can’t dazzle them with brilliance, baffle them with bulls - - -.
If you can’t find ‘em, grind ‘em. (Refers to shifting gears)
If you can’t take the heat, stay out of the kitchen.
If you can’t win for losing, you might as well quit.
If YOU don’t say it, THEY can’t repeat it.
If you don’t work, you don’t eat.
If you find yourself in a hole, the first thing to do is stop digging.
If you get to thinkin’ you’re a person of some influence, try ordering someone else’s dog around.
If you gotta ask, you can’t afford it.
If you lie down with dogs, you wake up with fleas.
If you play with a hot piano, you’ll get your fingers burned. (T.V.)
If you talk to God, you’re praying. If God talks to you, it’s schizophrenia.(TILLICH)
If you’re gonna steal something, might as well be something big.
If you’re gonna steal, steal from the best.
If you’re riding ahead of the herd, take a look back now and then to make sure it’s still there.
If youth knew; if age could.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse.
Ignore alien transmissions.
I’ll be back. (HOLLYWD)
I’m okay - you’re okay. (SOC.-PSYCH.)
I’m rubber, you’re glue. Whatever you say bounces off me and sticks to you.
Image is everything.
Imagination is more important than science. (EINSTEIN)
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
Impropriety is the soul of wit.(MAUGHAM)
In Christianity, one man sacrifices himself for all. In Fascism, all men sacrifice themselves for one.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In order to get a loan, you must first prove you don’t need it.
Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. (M.L. KING)
Into each life, a little rain must fall.
Invention breeds invention. (EMERSON)
Iron bars do not a prison make.
It ain’t over ‘til it’s over.
It ain’t over ‘til the fat lady sings.
It don’t mean a thing if it ain’t got that swing.
It don’t take a genius to spot a goat in a flock of sheep.
It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
It is better to light one candle than to curse the darkness.
It is better to rule in hell, than to serve in heaven. (LITER.)
It is easier to fight for one’s principles than to live up to them. (ADLER)
It is what it is.
It isn’t the quarry that makes the hunt, nor is the goal the game.
It pays to advertise.
It shouldn’t happen to a dog.
It takes a whole village to raise a child.
It takes money to make money.
It takes one to know one.
It takes two to tango (or ‘tangle’).
It’ll all come out in the wash.
It’s a dog-eat-dog world.
It’s a man’s world.
It’s a nice place to visit, but I wouldn’t want to live there.
It’s always darkest just before the dawn.
It’s better to ask dumb questions, than to make dumb mistakes.
It’s better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.(TENNYSON)
It’s good to be the king.(HOLLYWOOD)
It’s more blessed to give than to receive.
It’s not nice to fool Mother Nature.
It’s not polite to stare.
It’s not the age,…it’s the mileage. (JONES) (HOLLYWD)
It’s not the heat, it’s the humidity.
It’s not the men in my life that matters; it’s the life in my men. (WEST)
It’s not the size of the man that counts in a fight, it’s the size of the fight in the man.
It’s not WHAT you know, it’s WHO you know.
It’s not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game.
It’s the top of the building that sways the furthest out of line. (GARTH )
It’s what you DON’T see that matters.
Jack-of-all-trades,…master of none.
Jesus-others-you (spells J.O.Y.).
Jesus saves.
Joy & temperance and repose, slams the door on the doctor’s nose. (LONGFELLOW)
Judge not, lest ye be judged.
Jump my chest and I’ll do the rest. (Portland, OR. 1967)
Just because you can, doesn’t mean you should.
Just because you’re not paranoid doesn’t mean everybody isn’t out to get you.
Justice is blind.
Justice shines by it’s own light. (CICERO)
Keep a stiff upper lip.
Keep-it-simple-stupid (or K.I.S.S.).
Keep the faith.
Keep on keepin’ on.
Keep on thinking free. (MOODY BLUES )
Keep on truckin’. (BUMPER)
Keep the homefires burning.
Keep your eye on the bottom line.
Keep your eyes on the prize.
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer.
Keep your hands to yourself.
Keep your powder dry.
Kill or be killed.
Kill them with kindness.
Kindness begets kindness.
Klaatu Nikto Barada. (HOLLYWD)
Knock and the door shall be opened unto you. (BIBLE)
Knowledge is power.
Knowledge puffeth up. (BIBLE)
Know thyself.
Last hired, first fired.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you. Cry, and you cry alone.
Laws are like cobwebs, which may catch small flies, but let wasps and hornets pass through.(SWIFT)
Lead, follow or get out of the way. (MOTTO)
Leaflets three, leave it be.
Less is more.
Let a smile be your umbrella.
Let by-gones be by-gones.
Let China sleep, for when she wakes, all the world will know it.
Let God.
Let he who is without sin cast the first stone. (BIBLE)
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let the buyer beware.
Let the chips fall where they may.
Let the facts speak for themselves.
Let tomorrow take care of itself.
Let your conscience be your guide.
Let’s not and say we did.
Lettin’ the cat outta the bag is a whole lot easier than puttin’ it back in.
‘Liberty’ is just the legal right to con others into doing what you want.
Life can only be understood backwards, but it must be lived forwards.(KIERKAGAARD)
Life goes on.
Life is like a box of chocolates; you never know just what you’re gonna get. (HOLLYWD)
Life is a bed of roses.
Life’s just a bowl of cherries.
Lightning never strikes twice.
Like sands through the hourglass, so are the days of our lives. (T.V.)
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live fast, die young, and leave a good looking corpse. (N.A.F.T.)
Live for today.
Live free or die. (POLIT.)
Live long and prosper. (T.V.)
Live simply, so that others may simply live.
Live to ride-ride to live.
Living well is the best revenge.
Little pitchers have big ears.
Location, location, location.
LOCKS keep honest people honest.
Look before you leap.
Look sharp, feel sharp.
Loose lips sink ships.
Love conquers all.
Love hurts.
Love is a many splendored thing
Love is blind.
Love is fleeting-herpes is forever.
Love is the drug.
Love makes the world go round.
Love means you never have to say you’re sorry.
Love the life you live-live the life you love.
Love the one you’re with.
Luck be a lady tonight. (SINATRA)
Lucky tie-lucky guy.
Mad dogs and Englishmen go out in the noonday sun.
Make ‘em laugh.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make love not war.
Man does not live by bread alone.
Man may work from sun to sun, but a women’s work is never done.
Man’s best friend is his dog.
Many are called, few are chosen. (BIBLE)
Many hands make light work.
March goes in like a lion, but out like a lamb.
Married in black, can’t go back.
Married in hast, repent in leisure.
May the best man win.
Men don’t make passes at girls who wear glasses.
Mess with the best, die like the rest.
Might makes right.
Milk it for all it’s worth.
Mind your P’s and Q’s.
Misery loves company.
Money begets money.
Money can’t buy love (or ‘happiness’).
Money doesn’t grow on trees.
Money is a good servant, but a bad master.
Money is like muck, not good unless it is spread.
Money talks (Bulls--- walks). (N.A.F.T.)
Monkey see-monkey do.
More power. (ALLEN)
Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast (or ‘beast’).
My country, right or wrong.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Neatness counts.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Necessity never made a good bargain. (FRANKLIN)
Neither a borrower nor a lender be. (LITER.)
Neither cast your pearls before swine….(BIBLE)
Neither rain, nor snow, nor sleet, nor dark of night will stay this courier from his appointed rounds. (MOTTO) (POST OFFICE)
Never ask a barber if you need a haircut.
Never ASSUME, because that makes an ASS out of U & ME. (N.A.F.T.)
Never be first, never be last, never volunteer.
Never drop your gun to hug a grizzly.
Never follow good whiskey with water, unless you’re out of whiskey.
Never follow kids and animals. (HOLLYWD/VAUDEVILLE)
Never invest in anything that eats.
Never let the facts get in the way of a carefully thought out bad decision. (MARSHALL)
Never look directly into the sun.
Never miss a good chance to shut up.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say ‘die’.
Never say never.
Never smack a man who’s chewin’ tobacco.
Never talk important matters where you cannot see who listens.
Nice guys finish last.
Nine-tenths of wisdom is being wise in time. (T.ROOSEVELT)
Nip it in the bud. (FIFE)
Nixon now. (POLIT.)
No accounting for taste.
No act of kindness, no matter how small, is ever wasted. (AESOP)
No fear.
No glove, no love.(refers to ‘condoms’)
No guts, no glory.
No hero is immortal until he dies.(AUDEN)
No honor among thieves.
No man is an island.
No matter what goes wrong, there is always someone who knew it would.
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain. (HOLLYWD)
No problem is so bad it can’t fester awhile longer. (DAVIES)
No rest for the wicked.
No shirt, no shoes, no service. (MOTTO)
No tears in the writer, no tears in the reader.(R.FROST)
No time like the present.
Nobody likes a know-it-all.
Nobody loves a winner who wins all the time.
Not-in-my-back-yard ( N.I.M.B.Y.)
Not in my Marine Corps.
Nothing emboldens sin so much as mercy.
Nothing happens until first…a dream!
Nothing improves creativity like a lack of supervision.
Nothing is certain except death and taxes.
Nothing is impossible for God.
Nothing lasts forever.
Nothing says lovin’ like something from the oven (Or ‘a bun in the oven’).
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Numbers don’t lie.
Oh what a tangled web we weave, when first we practice to deceive. (or “conceive”).
Old and smart beats young and fast everytime.
On a galloping horse, who can tell?
Once bitten, twice shy.
Once black, never back. (N.A.F.T.)
Once on the lips, forever on the hips.
One good turn deserves another.
One hand washes the other.
One man’s myth is another man’s gospel.
One man’s wage rise is another man’s price increase. (WILSON)
One, on God’s side, is a majority.(PHILLIPS)
One person dies and it’s a tragedy. A million people die and it’s a statistic. (STALIN)
One person’s trash is another person’s treasure.
One thing leads to another.
Only time will tell.
Only Nixon could go to China. (SPOCK)
Only the good die young.
Only the lead dog gets a change of scenery.
Opportunities are seldom labeled.
Opportunity always knocks at the least opportune moment.
Opportunity knocks but once.
Opportunity usually comes disguised as hard work.
Opposites attract.
Our true size is the size of our God. (HOLLYWD)
Out of sight, out of mind.
Out of the frying pan, into the fire.
Out of the mouths of babes…
Out with the old, in with the new.
Parting is such sweet sorrow (Shakespeare).
People only want the truth when the truth is convenient.
People who live in glass houses, shouldn’t throw stones.
Perfection, like principles, do not belong in business.
Physician, heal thyself.
Pick your battles carefully.
Popular statements never need explaining, but unpopular ones do.(GARTH)
Positive things happen to positive people.
Possession diminishes the perception of value immediately.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law (or 90% of ownership).
Poverty sucks.
Power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Praise the Lord and pass the ammunition. (HIST.)
Pretty is as pretty does.
Pride goeth before a fall. (BIBLE)
Promises, promises.
Proverbs are short sayings drawn from long experience. (CERVANTES)
Proverbs may not improperly be called the philosophy of the common people. (J.HOWELL)
Pucker up buttercup. (ROONEY)
Put da lime in da coconut-den you feel betteh. (NILSSON)
Put your best foot forward.
Put your ducks in a row.
Put your money where your mouth is.
Put your nose to the grindstone.
Put your shoulder to the wheel.
Put up or shut up.
Que sera sera. (HOLLYWD)
Question assumptions.
Question authority. (BUMPER)
Question everything.
Rank has its privileges.
Reach for the stars.
Ready money is Aladdin’s lamp.
Real leaders have no need to lead. They are content to point the way. (MILLER)
Reality bites.
Red skies at night, sailors delight. Red skies in morning, sailors take warning!
Red to black - poisons lack. Red to yellow - kills a fellow (refers to color patterns on snakes).
Religion and politics don’t mix.
Religion is the opiate of the masses. (MARX)
Remember the Alamo! (HIST.)
Render unto Caesar that which is Caesar’s, and render unto God that which is God’s. (BIBLE)
Respect has to be earned.
Revenge is a dish best served cold.
Riches, like dung, stinks in a heap,..but when spread abroad, it makes the whole earth fruitful.
Ring out the old, ring in the new.
Rise and shine (and give God glory!)
Rome wasn’t built in a day.
Row well and live. (41) (HOLLYWD)
Rules were made to be broken.
Sacred cows make the best hamburger.
Safety first.
Say it, don’t spray it.
See no evil, hear no evil, say no evil – no!
Seeing is believing.
Seize the day (or “Carpe Diem”). (HIST)
Sex sells. (N.A.F.T.)
Share and share alike.
Shop ‘til you drop. (BUMPER)
Shoot first and ask questions later.
Short but sweet.
Show me a hero and I’ll show you a tragedy. (HEMINGWAY)
Show-me-the-money!!! (HOLLYWD)
Silence is golden.
Sink the Bismarck! (HIST.)
So many men, so little time. (N.A.F.T)
Sock it to me! (T.V.)
Some day my prince will come. (HOLLYWD)
Some day my ship will come in.
Some days it doesn’t pay to get outta the bed.
Some days you get the bear, some days the bear gets you.
Sometimes things have to get worse before they get better.
Sometimes you just have to gut it through. (GARTH)
Soylent Green is People!
Spare the rod and spoil the child. (BIBLE)
Speed kills. (ADVER.)
Speak of the devil (and who shows up?)
Speak the truth and shame the devil.
Stand by your man. (WYNETTE)
Stand up and be counted.
Statistics are for those who believe in nothing, but wish to act on something.
Sticks and stones may break my bones but words will never harm me.
Still waters run deep.
Stop, look and listen.
Storms make trees take deeper root.
Sweets to the sweet.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
Take no prisoners.
Take the money and run.
Talk is cheap.
Tell not all you know, believe not all you hear, do not all you are able.
Thank God it’s Friday (T.G.I.F.).
Thank heaven for little girls.(Chevalier)
That everything may be had for money, is no less ancient than true.
That’s life.
That’s no lady, that’s my wife.
That’s the blind leading the blind.
That’s the pot calling the kettle black.
The apple never falls far from the tree.
The ballot is stronger than the bullet. (LINCOLN)
The basic law of capitalism is you or I; not both you and I.
The best defense is a good offense.
The best things in life are free.
The bigger they are the harder they fall.
The bird who feathers it nest, leaves nothing to chance.
The bloom is off the rose.
The buck stops here. (TRUMAN)
The check is in the mail. (SOC-PSYCH)
The cheese stands alone.
The criminal always returns to the scene of his crime.
The customer is always right.
The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.
The devil dances in an empty pocket.
The devil finds work for idle hands.
The devil take the hindmost.
The devil’s in the details.
The devil’s in the fine print.
The doctor is often more to be feared than the disease.
The early bird gets the worm.
The ends don’t justify the means.
The evil that men do lives after them.
The eyes are the windows to the soul.
The faster I go, the behinder I get. (BUMPER)
The female is the deadlier of the species.
The first casualty of war is truth.
The grass is always greener on the other side of the fence.
The hand is quicker than the eye.
The hand that rocks the cradle, is the hand that rules the world. (Wallace)
The higher the monkey climbs a tree, the more you see his ugly side.
The innocent and the beautiful have no enemy but time. (YEATS)
The lair of the wicked is ANONYMITY, but the refuge of the righteous is COMMUNITY. (GARTH)
The leopard can’t change his spots.
The lion is known by his claw. (A contemporary describing Isaac Newton)
The Lord helps he who helps himself.
The Lord moves in mysterious ways.
The meek shall inherit the earth, but not the mineral rights. (GETTY)
The middle of the road is the most dangerous place to walk.
The mob has many heads but no brains. (FULLER)
The more the merrier.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The more you pay, the more it’s worth.
The most cooperative man in the world is a dead man. (OKMYX)
The most wasted day of all, is the one in which we have not laughed. (CHAMFORT)
The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on. (KHAYYAM)
The nail that sticks up…gets the hammer.
The night has a thousand eyes.
The only certainty is that nothing is certain. (PLINY)
The only thing you find in the middle of the road is ‘yellow stripes’ and dead armadillos.
The operation was a success, but the patient died.
The past is the only dead thing that smells sweet. (C.THOMAS)
The pen is mightier than the sword.
The perception of beauty is a moral test. (THOREAU)
The person who knows HOW will always have a job. The person who knows WHY will always be his boss. (RAVITCH)
The play’s the thing.
The postman always rings twice.
The proof is in the pudding.
The quickest way to double your money is to fold it over and put it back in your pocket.
The right tool for the right job.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The sea is cold, but has the hottest blood of all.
The sequel is never the equal.
The show must go on!
The South will rise again. (HIST.)
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The third time’s the charm.
The truth cuts both ways.
The truth hurts.
The truth is out there.
The truth will out.
The wages of sin is death. (BIBLE)
The walls have ears.
The way to a man’s heart is through his stomach.
The way to procure insults is to submit to them.
The world is a grindstone-life is your nose. (ALLEN)
The world loves a spice of wickedness.
The worm is the spice, the spice is the worm.(HERBERT)
Theirs not to make reply, theirs not to reason why, theirs is but to do and die.
There ain’t no justice.
There are lies, damn lies, and then there’s STATISTICS.
There are old pilots and bold pilots, but no old, bold pilots.
There are ways,…and then there are WAYS.
There comes a time in every project when you have to shoot the engineer and proceed to production.
There comes a time when you can’t hit your brother anymore, because either you, him, or the hate has died. (GARTH)
There is no armor against fate.
There is no God, but God.
There is no ‘royal road’ to Geometry. (EUCLID)
There is no such thing as justice, in or out of court.(DARROW)
There is nothing new under the sun. (BIBLE)
There is nothing so small it can’t be blown out of proportion.
There is nothing to fear, but fear itself. (ROOSEVELT)
There’s a fine line between genius and madness.
There’s a little larceny in everybody.
There’s a sucker born every minute.
There’s always a light at the end of the tunnel.
There’s more then one way to skin a cat.
There’s never a cop around when you need one.
There’s no atheists in the foxholes. (CUMMINGS)
There’s no business like show business.
There’s no fool like an old fool.
There’s no place like home.
There’s no room for sentiment in business.
There’s no way to tell where the DT’s leave off and Hollywood begins. (FIELDS)
There’s none so blind as those who will not see.
There’s safety in numbers.
There’s small choice in rotten apples.(SHAKESPEARE)
There’s something rotten in Denmark.
There’s two theories to arguin’ with a woman; Neither one works.
They also serve who only stand and wait.
Think God. (BUMPER)
This far and no farther.
Those who CAN, have a moral obligation to do for those who CAN’T. (GARTH)
Those who ignore the lessons of history are doomed to repeat them.
Three on a match is bad luck.
Three things the public clamors for: NOVELTY, NOVELTY, NOVELTY.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time flies when you’re having fun.
Time for the old ‘tried and true’.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is money.
Time is the great healer.
Time marches on.
Time waits for no one.
Timing is everything.
To do just the opposite is also a form of imitation.(JOHNSON)
To err is human, but it feels divine. (MAE WEST)
To err is human, to forgive divine.
To the victor go the spoils.
To thine own self be true.
To whom much is given, much is required.
Today is the first day of the rest of your life. (BUMPER)
Tomorrow IS another day! (HOLLYWD)
Tomorrow never comes.
Too many chiefs and not enough Indians.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Too much is never enough.
Top O’ the world Ma! (HOLLYWD)
Tough times don’t last. Tough people do.
Train up a child in the way he should go and when he is old he will not depart from it. (BIBLE)
Trouble rides a fast horse.
Troubles come in threes.
Trust everybody, but cut the cards.
Trust in Allah, but tie up your camel.
Trust is a two-way street.
Trust only those who stand to lose as much as you when things go wrong.
Trust works both ways.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Turn out the lights, the party’s over. (NFL - MEREDITH) (T.V.)
Turn the other cheek. (BIBLE)
Turnabout is fair play.
Two can live as cheaply as one.
Two heads are better than one.
Two’s company, three’s a crowd.
Two wrongs don’t make a right.
Uneasy lies the head that bears the crown.
United we stand, divided we fall.
Up the establishment. (POLIT.)
Upward and onward.
Use it or lose it.
Use the force Luke! (HOLLYWD)
‘V’ for victory. (POLIT. SLOGAN)
Variety is the soul of pleasure.
Variety is the spice of life.
Virtue and vice divide the stars, but vice has the greater share. (SARIGAR)
Virtue is its own reward.
Visualize  world  peace (or ‘ whirled peas’). (BUMPER)
Vote for Pat Paulson  or get off the pot! (T.V. – HIST)
Walk softly but carry a big stick. (ROOSEVELT?)
War is hell.
War makes strange bedfellows.
Warped minds think alike.
Waste not - want not.
Watch the skies.
Water seeks it’s own level.
Water takes the easiest path.
We all learn from our mistakes.
We have to believe in free will. We have no choice.
We must all hang together or we will all hang seperately. (FRANKLIN)
We sleep, they live.
What baby wants, baby gets. (BOGART)
What doesn’t kill me only makes me stronger.
What goes around, comes around.
What goes up must come down.
What man calls ‘civilization’, always results in deserts. (MARQUIS)
What,…me worry? (NEUMAN)
What one man can do, another man can do.
What we obtain too cheaply, we esteem too lightly.
What you don’t know, can’t hurt you.
Whatever floats your boat.
Whatever can go wrong, will go wrong (a.k.a. Murphy’s law).
Whatever’s fair.
What’s done is done.
What’s good for General Motors is good for the country. (WILSON)(a misquote)
When God shuts a door, he opens a window.
What’s good for the goose is good for the gander.
When a body is immersed in water, the telephone rings.
When bad men combine, the good must associate. (BURKE)
When elephants make war, it is the mice that suffer.
When in doubt, run ‘em out. (???)
When in doubt, run like hell. (BUMPER)
When in Rome, do as the Romans. (HIST)
When in trouble,…travel. (‘Presidential’ advice)
When it grows too long, the tail wags the dog.
When it rains, it pours.
When life gives you lemons, make lemonade.
When nature calls, you answer.
When the chips are down, you know the buffalo is empty. (???)
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
When the going gets tough, the tough go shopping. (BUMPER)
When you give a lesson in mean-ness to a critter or a person, don’t be surprised if they learn their lesson.
When you play  with fire, you get burned.
When you’re throwin’ your weight around, be ready to have it thrown back by someone else.
When you’ve eliminated all other possibilities, whatever remains, no matter how unlikely, is it. (DOYLE)
Where there is no vision, the people perish. (BIBLE)
Where there’s a will, there’s a lawsuit.
Where there’s a will, there’s a way.
Where there’s life, there’s hope.
Where there’s smoke, there’s fire.
Where’s the beef? (T.V. – ADVER.)
While the cat’s away, the mice will play.
White man speak with forked tongue.
Who controls the past, controls the future. (ORWELL)
Who dares, wins.
Whoever has the gold, makes the rules.
Whom the Gods would destroy, they first make mad. (EURIPEDES)
Why walk when you can ride?
Winners never quit, and quitters never win.
Winning isn’t everything.
Winning isn’t everything, it’s the ONLY thing. (BUMPER)
Women and children first.
Women; Can’t live with ‘em, can’t live without ‘em.
Woodsman, spare that tree.
Worldly hearts are penny-wise, but pound-foolish.
Worry is the interest paid by those who borrow trouble.
Write with the learned, pronounce with the vulgar. (FRANKLIN)
‘ X ‘  marks the spot.
Ya gotta put down the ducky ( if you wanna play the saxophone). (T.V.)
Yeah, but will it play in Peoria?
You always hurt the one you love.
You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
You can dress him up, but you can’t take him out.
You can fool SOME of the people all of the time, and ALL of the people some of the time, but you can’t fool ALL of the people ALL of the time! (LINCOLN)
You can have a dog for a friend, or whiskey for a friend…but if you have a girl for a friend, you’ll end up drunk and kissing your dog.
You can lead a horse to water but you can’t make him drink.
You can never go home again.
You can never plan the future by the past. (BURKE)
You can pick your friends, but you can’t pick your relatives.
You can take ‘glory’ with you,…when it’s your time to go. (HOLLYWD)
You can take the boy out of the country, but you can’t take the country out of the boy.
You can’t cheat an honest man.
You can’t fight City Hall.
You can’t fool Mother Nature.
You can’t have the rainbow without the rain.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too.
You can’t judge a book by its cover.
You can’t make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear.
You can’t take it with you when you go.
You can’t teach an old dog new tricks.
You can’t win ‘em all.
You don’t know what you’ve got ‘til it’s gone.
You go to heaven for the weather, and hell for the company.
You gotta  look out for number one.
You just never can tell about some things.
You learn something new everyday.
You never know who’s right, but you always know who’s in charge..
You only go around once in life. (T.V./ADVER.)
You only live once. (Or ‘twice’ if you’re James Bond)
You seen one, you’ve seen ‘em all.
You scratch my back and I’ll scratch yours.
You snooze, you lose.
You watch my back, and I’ll watch yours.
You’d be surprised at what you can live through.
You’re as young as you feel.
You’re either part of the solution, or part of the problem.
You’re never fully dressed without a smile. (IODENT)
You’re never too old to learn.
Youth condemns, maturity condones. (LOWELL)
Youth is a blunder,…manhood a struggle,…old age a regret. (DISRAELI)
Youth looks forward, age looks back.
Youth will be served.
You’ve got to go along to get along.
You’ve got to know when to hold ‘em, know when to fold ‘em, know when to walk away, know when to run. (Don Schlitz)
You’ve got to walk before you can run.
You’ve got to watch your step… when you know the chips are down. (PATTY)
You’ve got to play the hand you’re dealt.
You’ve got to stop and smell the roses along the way.
You’ve never lived,…until you’ve almost died.
Zip-a-dee-doo-dah, zip-a-dee-day! My-oh-my! What a wonderful day!